# dots for dotfiles
## reinstallation
A list of installed packages was generated with
```bash
pacman -Qqen > packages.txt
```
To reinstall all packages using this list, use
```bash
sudo pacman -S --needed < packages.txt
```
Similarly, AUR packages were generated by Paru with
```bash
paru -Qqem > aur_packages.txt
```
and can be regenerated with
```bash
paru -S --needed < aur_packages.txt
```
Later I will make a script that automatically does this, and I may even separate everything into pacman groups.

### Additional Steps
#### Sudo
Configure sudo to persist across terminals by adding the below to `/etc/sudoers`
```bash
Defaults timestamp_type=global
```
Also remember to enable the `wheel` sudo group

#### Networking
Add the user to the `network` group
```bash
sudo usermod -aG {user} network
```
On my PC, ASPM (Active State Power Management) must be disabled for the AX210 (wifi card). This is done in BIOS

#### xdg-desktop-portal
Ensure the following packages are installed

- `xdg-desktop-portal-impl`
- `xdg-desktop-portal-hyprland`
- `xdk-desktop-portal-kde`

Then in `~/.config/xdg-desktop-portal/portals.conf` add the following lines

```toml
[preferred]
default=hyprland;kde
org.freedesktop.impl.portal.FileChooser = kde
```

This will use the `hyprland` desktop portal wherever possible, fallback to `kde`, and use `dolphin` for file choosing.

#### Git/Github Setup
Ensure git is setup correctly (`user.name` and `user.email` set), and the following packages are installed:

- `github-cli`
- `gpg`
- `pass`

Once this is done, generate a new GnuPG key with
```bash
gpg --generate-key
```
and follow the prompts. Then, retrieve the id of the key with
```bash
gpg --list-secret-keys --keyid-format=long
```
The id of the key is in the line `sec ed25519/1234567890ABCDEF 2026-04-16`. In this case, the id is `1234567890ABCDEF`.
Then, initialise `pass` with this key
```bash
pass init [key]
```
The password store is now configured. Git can be told to use this store with
```bash
git config --global credential.credentialStore gpg
```
The OAuth token from Github can be configured by running
```bash
gh auth login
```
and following the prompts.
Note that the blame will only be the Github account if `user.name` and `user.email` matches the account.

#### Steam
To install steam, enable 32-bit packages in `/etc/pacman.conf`. For Arch, this is `multilib`, and for Artix this is `lib32`.
Once this is done, ensure the following packages are installed

- `vulkan-radeon`
- `lib32-vulkan-radeon`
- Some `xdg-desktop-portal` implementation (see [#xdg-desktop-portal])

The `steam` package can now be installed.
When adding a library, ensure permission are set correctly, and `ntfs` drives are begin mounted as `ntfs`. For example

```
UUID=xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx /SharedDrive ntfs3 rw,relatime,uid=1000,gid=1000,acl,iocharset=utf8,prealloc 0 0
```

This have been mounted as `ntfs3`, and it is owned by `uid` 1000 (the first user created after `root`).
